yo what up I might as well just start
this video with an anecdote and then get
into the broader question of why I'm
talking about this stuff I had a
girlfriend and it was a serious
relationship
we considered getting married we
considered a lot of long-term things but
she was just my girlfriend and she was
not vegetarian she was not vegan and I
remember I said to her very simply and
bluntly at one point
look you're thinking about this the
wrong way and fundamentally it's a it's
a peculiar kind of racism I said to her
you have to take this as seriously as if
I had brown skin and I was born in India
and I was telling you you've got to
follow these dietary rules or nothing
you can't marry me you can't really be
my long-term girlfriend you can't really
have a meaningful relationship with me
if you don't live up to these rules and
I pointed out to her I said look coz you
know she was opposed to this I said you
know your whole attitude all of your
expectations would be different if I had
brown skin M was born and raised in
India you know I'm not saying she'd
choose to do it but she shrugged her
shoulders and think well that's the
price of admission that's the cost of
entry if this particular man is the man
I want to marry then I've got to be
vegetarian or vegan or whatever it is
and maybe you have to have a certain
type of religious ceremony or wedding
all kinds of other implications are
possible maybe you've got to take off
your shoes in a particular way at the
door maybe there are all sorts of other
magical and religious implications now
there are some ways in which veganism is
not like any religion in the world there
are some ways in which it is profoundly
different from any religion in the world
but when talking on this level of our
personal lives sometimes it can very
closely resemble a religion in exactly
this way
you know love me or leave me and with
that girlfriend that was the reason why
we broke it off that was the reason why
I broke off through issue with her I did
make a bunch of compromises but she sent
me an email at one point saying you know
she tried to be vegetarian for a couple
of days not even vegan and you know she
hated it and resent it and didn't want
to do it I wrote back saying get new
boyfriend cuz it's over uh the email was
not that short but it really was that
decisive because we'd already talked it
through we'd already you know laid all
the cards on the table um she was smart
she was hardworking she had a lot of
redeeming qualities that girl a lot of
things I liked about her morally
ethically she was a pretty despicable
person to be perfect you it was not the
only issue I mean that were that
actually reflected other aspects of her
character ethically and morally and you
know that that can be attractive a woman
it can be attractive to be with a woman
who you think is smart and you can
recognize she's kind of ruthless you
know she's kind of amoral in a certain
way but I've got to say I never never
looked back and regret that I that I
broke up with her and I think she really
is the kind of person who would slit a
slit a pig's throat I think she's slit a
human beings throat without much
hesitation and I remember I remember
actually being around some some animals
with her I remember there was a
particular cow that you know she had a
history with she knew this cow was not
quite a pet cow but she'd known this cow
for years and you know because we talked
about this stuff so much I asked her I
said so would you eat this cow like
would you eat this cow if someone else
killed it for you and you know it was
very emotional for it she said
I would I would never eat this countess
yeah but you eat different cows every
day what says this man anyway this this
anecdote is is expanding its utility
this video at this moment today the day
this video is being uploaded I'm still
receiving questions for a Q&A session
that I'm doing via patreon so people who
are my patrons have sent me questions
and they very generously sent me one
dollar each thank you for your support
I completely intend to take that money
fly to Thailand live in luxury fill
myself swimming in a bikini on the beach
etc um that was funnier than I thought
it would be for me and I told the joke
by self tragically many of many of the
vegans who raised money this way for
charity or for activism the actual
charity and their actual activism is is
going on vacation in Thailand one of my
patrons is a guy called Mike on Raw I'll
give the link to his channel below this
video I think the the tone and nature of
his content has changed just recently
and he sent me some email I think he's
been reconsidering what he's talking
about in how he started were partly
response to my my videos which is
wonderful and he had a recent video just
a couple days ago where he was really in
a very down-to-earth way reflecting on
the misery of him being the only vegan
in his family so he's married his wife
is not vegan and then beyond that his
extended family nobody's vegan you know
so aunts and uncles and kids and
grandkids and he's in a lot of
situations that give him misery I have
but anyway thank you I mean genuinely
thanks for your support
I think he's giving me $1 a month which
is wonderful and he's staying in touch
with me through patreon so happy to hear
from him and he has sent me some
questions that I'm gonna ask answer in
the Q&A but right now I'm going to
respond to that video of his um
another friend of mine online who will
leave anonymous he at almost the same
time just yesterday he wrote to me
talking about his family situation and
that guy feels bad I mean Mike they're
struggling with the same issue feeling
bad in imposing arbitrary moral
requirements on your family around you
so again I don't know if Mike uses
exactly these terms of Mike and this
other friend of mine just to generalize
a little bit
they reflect on things like well Who am
I to not let my relatives bring meat
into my house and how does that actually
work
do I actually impose a rule on someone
okay you're not allowed to cook meat in
my kitchen well what if they buy a
sandwich or a hot dog at a shop down the
street and they just finish eating it in
your living room are you gonna kick them
out of the house are you gonna make them
stand on the porch alright you can hear
my windows open actually I don't know if
you can hear the birds singing um you
know is it like a cigarette where you
force someone to stand in the backyard
while they smoke a cigarette how does
this really work with people you are
supposed to love and respect because the
reality is the type of moral distinction
involved is one of where you're
expressing contempt for people you're
saying to people one way or another
however play ly I don't respect you and
I don't love this about you it's
something that really brings about
terrible conflict and again for both of
them both Mike I think part of the
struggle is this unease about the
arbitrariness of it like they're
comfortable with the statements of
principle above veganism but then when
we get down to practice okay so you're
already married to this woman but now
you've become vegan again this is why
coming back to my anecdote this is why
the comparison to religion is
significant if somebody gets married to
me and then I convert to a new religion
afterward she is entitled to complain
that this is not what you signed up for
okay if I get married to someone as an
atheist and then for some mysterious
reason I become
passionate about Buddhism and I'm all
the way into tera vaada Buddhism I
overnight I convert to Protestant
Christianity all of a sudden a boy you
know Martin Luther gee you know yeah is
this all of a sudden this really does it
for me
and change my whole life that's ground
from my perspective I think that's a
reason to get divorced
for somewhat a fundamental change in who
you are such as converting to a new
religion after the marriage they didn't
sign up for that that wasn't in the
contract they married you for the person
you were and the beliefs you had and the
values you had and the ethics you had at
the time you got married now a lot of
other things are much more slippery
maybe you got married to someone before
they became a gambling addict after
you've been married for five years they
get addicted to gambling
that's a gambling is not a religion but
it can transform your whole life for the
same way whoo all right that posters
about to take off all right I don't know
oh by the way I really wondered if I
should have like a patreon contest and
give that poster for to someone for free
certain to someone in the mail or if I
should roll it up and take it with me to
China but no it's coming off the wall
already so we'll see what happens with
my my my poster that's been in the
background all this time look it's real
this this stuff it's not deep but it's
real these are the issues we all really
struggle with I just made another video
the other day that has arbitrary in the
title I think part of the key here is
really being comfortable with what's
arbitrary in your life and admitting to
everyone involved that because something
is arbitrary doesn't mean it's evil
doesn't mean it's wrong it also doesn't
mean it's perfect doesn't mean it's
perfect solution but yes in the same way
that a Hindu living in Western society
has to draw up a bunch of lines there
was a real controversy in India when the
technology of the bicycle was first
introduced to India and Hindus thought
the bicycle was immoral and nobody
should be allowed to buy one because the
seats were made out of leather this is
obviously reflecting the era they didn't
have plastic bicycle seats yet and there
were public protests in the streets
there were pull it
whose political organized opposition
there was an anti bicycle movement and
as a vegan I can relate now ultimately
that movement lost because at that time
the bicycle was such a fundamental
advance in in whatever you want to say
civilization technologically it was
really a breakthrough something you know
something relatively poor people could
use and at a time when the only
alternative was riding a horse you know
bicycles were really a big deal for a
long time so the bicycle nevertheless
did proliferate in India and people did
use leather seats cow leather and that
contradiction existed within Indian
society despite the opposition to it yes
there are arbitrary lines we have to
draw anytime you buy a product that has
sugar as an ingredient you probably know
this it could in theory be non vegan
sugar and it might not be there are some
trace ingredients some people say well
can you buy Cheerios Cheerios is a
breakfast cereal can you not buy
Cheerios when there's some incredibly
small percentage way less than 1% that
might be non vegan derived etc
ultimately yes for your own life you
have to make those arbitrary
distinctions and you have to impose it
on others the art the irony is the
arbitrary distinctions you make in your
life you don't impose on strangers you
don't impose on people you hate people
you despise people who disagree with you
impose those those arbitrary
distinctions most on the people you love
you know in this guy's case his wife who
isn't vegan and who married this guy
before he became vegan she didn't sign
up for this and now all of a sudden
maybe he's in the position of saying
look if it's in my kitchen I won't
tolerate this because it's immoral if
it's being bought with my money I won't
tolerate this because it's immoral
it is hard it's hard and I think really
one of the one of the most honest things
you could say to her is look you have to
take this as seriously as if I had brown
skin as if I were born and raised in
India
and it's really worth questioning why do
we take that so seriously we're talking
about right and wrong we're talking
about moral and immoral why would it
matter if my ancestors were vegan if I
can say to you Owen to my family for
1,000 years everyone has been vegetarian
some people in India can boast that way
their whole family's been vegetarian
4000 years I can't nobody nobody in my
family's vegetarian nobody in my
family's be but the truth is if
something is right or wrong
now today if it's a positive difference
we can make now that's what's Matt in
matters that's what's important that's
priceless that's what's tremendously
important and actually the question of
what somebody did a thousand years ago
is almost completely meaningless by
contrast you know this is about the
difference we can make and the potential
we have as individuals as a family as a
couple or what have you and I know I
know it sounds like a trade an overused
phrase but I think the way out of this
is keeping it real as being a hundred
percent honest with yourself being a
hundred percent honest with your loved
ones and saying look I recognize the
contradictions I recognize that doesn't
make sense like asking you to smoke a
cigarette on the porch and not in the
living room there's some people like
that with alcohol but they say look if
you go and get drunk in a bar that's
fine but I'm not gonna let you drink
alcohol in my house you know especially
if they're an ex-alcoholic a lot of
people feel that with it say they don't
want alcohol in their lives they don't
want this purchased with their own money
etc you can recognize look this is
arbitrary it's not perfectly rational
it's not a purpose system it's not a
perfect solution but I love you I
respect you I need you to respect this
and come along in this journey with me
and if you can't you got to get a new
boyfriend